OK, you're almost there, you get to make your script executable and then you're going to run it.
So just type this 'chmod 755',
[quircky music/singing ]chmod seven five five!
and the name of your script.
'second_script'.sh
And press enter.  Now hit the up arrow type or type 'ls -l' again.
And now you'll see the permissions on our file have changed, so before it was read/write, read, read,
and now let's read/write/execute, read/execute, read/execute. This might seem kind of weird, but basically
now that now that this has the executable permission on it, you can just type the name of your script
and it will run.
So what did that chmod command actually do?
It changed the mode.
That's what the command stands for, change mode.
And then we gave it this number.
And these numbers actually relate to what these letters turn out to be.
So most most Linux users will be able to actually look at this number and see what the permissions are
just based on this number.
And maybe you'll get to that point, too.
But you don't have to know that for right now.
Just remember that this is the command you'll want to run for an any shell script
you make: 'chmod 755' and then your script name.
So here's a summary of basically what you need to do to create any script.
(to self) reset..
You need to type 'vim yourscript.sh ',
type "i" for Insert Mode, write some code,
escape key, ":wq"--you can actually combine those two, write, and quit at the same time and then
'chmod 755
yourscript.sh'
So that's what you need to do in order to make your script executable and ready to go.
So in the next lecture, I'm going to give you a quick overview of Linux file permissions so you can
actually understand why--or how this number relates to the file permissions.
And then after that, you'll finally get to run your script.